<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-76" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVI</h2>
			<p>She sat on the edge of the bed hiding her face with her hands.</p>
			<p>“Would you like a drop of water?”</p>
			<p>She shook her head. He went over to the washing stand, filled the tooth-glass and brought it to her.</p>
			<p>“Come along, have a little drink and you’ll feel better.”</p>
			<p>He put the glass to her lips and she sipped the water. Then, with horrified eyes, she stared at him. He was standing over her, looking down, and in his eyes was a twinkle of self-satisfaction.</p>
			<p>“Well, do you think I’m such a dirty dog as you did?” he asked.</p>
			<p>She looked down.</p>
			<p>“Yes. But I know that I’m not a bit better than you. Oh, I’m so ashamed.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I think you’re very ungrateful.”</p>
			<p>“Will you go now?”</p>
			<p>“To tell you the truth I think it’s about time. I’ll just go and tidy myself up before Dorothy comes in.”</p>
			<p>He went out of the room with a jaunty step.</p>
			<p>Kitty sat for a while, still on the edge of the bed, hunched up like an imbecile. Her mind was vacant. A shudder passed through her. She staggered to her feet and, going to the dressing-table, sank into a chair. She stared at herself in the glass. Her eyes were swollen with tears; her face was stained and there was a red mark on one cheek where his had rested. She looked at herself with horror. It was the same face. She had expected in it she knew not what change of degradation.</p>
			<p>“Swine,” she flung at her reflection. “Swine.”</p>
			<p>Then, letting her face fall on her arms, she wept bitterly. Shame, shame! She did not know what had come over her. It was horrible. She hated him and she hated herself. It had been ecstasy. Oh, hateful! She could never look him in the face again. He was so justified. He had been right not to marry her, for she was worthless; she was no better than a harlot. Oh, worse, for those poor women gave themselves for bread. And in this house too into which Dorothy had taken her in her sorrow and cruel desolation! Her shoulders shook with her sobs. Everything was gone now. She had thought herself changed, she had thought herself strong, she thought she had returned to Hong-Kong a woman who possessed herself; new ideas flitted about her heart like little yellow butterflies in the sunshine and she had hoped to be so much better in the future; freedom like a spirit of light had beckoned her on, and the world was like a spacious plain through which she could walk light of foot and with head erect. She had thought herself free from lust and vile passions, free to live the clean and healthy life of the spirit; she had likened herself to the white egrets that fly with leisurely flight across the rice fields at dusk and they are like the soaring thoughts of a mind at rest with itself; and she was a slave. Weak, weak! It was hopeless, it was no good to try, she was a slut.</p>
			<p>She would not go in to dinner. She sent the boy to tell Dorothy that she had a headache and preferred to remain in her room. Dorothy came in and, seeing her red, swollen eyes, talked for a little in her gentle, commiserating way of trivial things. Kitty knew that Dorothy thought she had been crying on account of Walter and, sympathising like the good and loving wife she was, respected the natural sorrow.</p>
			<p>“I know it’s very hard, dear,” she said as she left Kitty. “But you must try to have courage. I’m sure your dear husband wouldn’t wish you to grieve for him.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
