<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>ii</h2>
			<p>He did as she bade and in five minutes she joined him. He was smoking a cigarette.</p>
			<p>"I say, could I have a brandy and soda?"</p>
			<p>"Yes, I'll ring."</p>
			<p>"I don't think it would hurt <i>you</i> by the look of things."</p>
			<p>They waited in silence for the boy to answer. She gave the order.</p>
			<p>"Ring up the laboratory and ask if Walter is there," she said then. "They won't know your voice."</p>
			<p>He took up the receiver and asked for the number. He inquired whether Dr. Fane was in. He put down the receiver.</p>
			<p>"He hasn't been in since tiffin," he told her. "Ask the boy whether he has been here."</p>
			<p>"I daren't. It'll look so funny if he has and I didn't see him."</p>
			<p>The boy brought the drinks and Townsend helped himself. When he offered her some she shook her head.</p>
			<p>"What's to be done if it was Walter?" she asked.</p>
			<p>"Perhaps he wouldn't care."</p>
			<p>"Walter?"</p>
			<p>Her tone was incredulous.</p>
			<p>"It's always struck me he was rather shy. Some men can't bear scenes, you know. He's got sense enough to know that there's nothing to be gained by making a scandal. I don't believe for a minute it was Walter, but even if it was my impression is that he'll do nothing. I think he'll ignore it."</p>
			<p>She reflected for a moment.</p>
			<p>"He's awfully in love with me."</p>
			<p>"Well, that's all to the good. You'll get round him."</p>
			<p>He gave her that charming smile of his which she had always found so irresistible. It was a slow smile which started in his clear blue eyes and travelled by perceptible degrees to his shapely mouth. He had small white even teeth. It was a very sensual smile and it made her heart melt in her body.</p>
			<p>"I don't very much care," she said, with a flash of gaiety. "It was worth it."</p>
			<p>"It was my fault."</p>
			<p>"Why did you come? I was amazed to see you."</p>
			<p>"I couldn't resist it."</p>
			<p>"You dear."</p>
			<p>She leaned a little towards him, her dark and shining eyes gazing passionately into his, her mouth a little open with desire, and he put his arms round her. She abandoned herself with a sigh of ecstasy to their shelter.</p>
			<p>"You know you can always count on me," he said.</p>
			<p>"I'm so happy with you. I wish I could make you as happy as you make me."</p>
			<p>"You're not frightened any more?"</p>
			<p>"I hate Walter," she answered.</p>
			<p>He did not quite know what to say to this, so he kissed her. Her face was very soft against his.</p>
			<p>But he took her wrist on which was a little gold watch and looked at the time.</p>
			<p>"Do you know what I must do now?"</p>
			<p>"Bolt?" she smiled.</p>
			<p>He nodded. For one instant she clung to him more closely, but she felt his desire to go, and she released him.</p>
			<p>"It's shameful the way you neglect your work. Be off with you."</p>
			<p>He could never resist the temptation to flirt.</p>
			<p>"You seem in a devil of a hurry to get rid of me," he said lightly.</p>
			<p>"You know that I hate to let you go."</p>
			<p>Her answer was low and deep and serious. He gave a flattered laugh.</p>
			<p>"Don't worry your pretty little head about our mysterious visitor. I'm quite sure it was the amah. And if there's any trouble I guarantee to get you out of it."</p>
			<p>"Have you had a lot of experience?"</p>
			<p>His smile was amused and complacent.</p>
			<p>"No, but I flatter myself that I've got a head screwed on my shoulders."</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
